BUILDING.md, before:

# Building with CMake

## Build

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to build to keep
things simple.

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a single-configuration
generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build
```

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a multi-configuration
generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build
cmake --build build --config Release
```

### Building with MSVC

Note that MSVC by default is not standards compliant and you need to pass some
flags to make it behave properly. See the `flags-msvc` preset in the
[CMakePresets.json](CMakePresets.json) file for the flags and with what
variable to provide them to CMake during configuration.

### Building on Apple Silicon

CMake supports building on Apple Silicon properly since 3.20.1. Make sure you
have the [latest version][1] installed.

## Install

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to install to keep
things simple. As a prerequisite, the project has to be built with the above
commands already.

The below commands require at least CMake 3.15 to run, because that is the
version in which [Install a Project][2] was added.

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
single-configuration generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake --install build
```

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
multi-configuration generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake --install build --config Release
```

### CMake package

This project exports a CMake package to be used with the [`find_package`][3]
command of CMake:

* Package name: `git2wrap`
* Target name: `git2wrap::git2wrap`

Example usage:

```cmake
find_package(git2wrap REQUIRED)
# Declare the imported target as a build requirement using PRIVATE, where
# project_target is a target created in the consuming project
target_link_libraries(
    project_target PRIVATE
    git2wrap::git2wrap
)
```

### Note to packagers

The `CMAKE_INSTALL_INCLUDEDIR` is set to a path other than just `include` if
the project is configured as a top level project to avoid indirectly including
other libraries when installed to a common prefix. Please review the
[install-rules.cmake](cmake/install-rules.cmake) file for the full set of
install rules.

[1]: https://cmake.org/download/
[2]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake.1.html#install-a-project
[3]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html

Commit message:

Cleanup project files and vcpkg support

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building with CMake

## Dependencies

For a list of dependencies, please refer to [vcpkg.json](vcpkg.json).

## Build

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to build to keep
things simple.

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a single-configuration
generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build
```

Here are the steps for building in release mode with a multi-configuration
generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake -S . -B build
cmake --build build --config Release
```

### Building with MSVC

Note that MSVC by default is not standards compliant and you need to pass some
flags to make it behave properly. See the `flags-msvc` preset in the
[CMakePresets.json](CMakePresets.json) file for the flags and with what
variable to provide them to CMake during configuration.

### Building on Apple Silicon

CMake supports building on Apple Silicon properly since 3.20.1. Make sure you
have the [latest version][1] installed.

## Install

This project doesn't require any special command-line flags to install to keep
things simple. As a prerequisite, the project has to be built with the above
commands already.

The below commands require at least CMake 3.15 to run, because that is the
version in which [Install a Project][2] was added.

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
single-configuration generator, like the Unix Makefiles one:

```sh
cmake --install build
```

Here is the command for installing the release mode artifacts with a
multi-configuration generator, like the Visual Studio ones:

```sh
cmake --install build --config Release
```

### CMake package

This project exports a CMake package to be used with the [`find_package`][3]
command of CMake:

* Package name: `git2wrap`
* Target name: `git2wrap::git2wrap`

Example usage:

```cmake
find_package(git2wrap REQUIRED)
# Declare the imported target as a build requirement using PRIVATE, where
# project_target is a target created in the consuming project
target_link_libraries(
    project_target PRIVATE
    git2wrap::git2wrap
)
```

### Note to packagers

The `CMAKE_INSTALL_INCLUDEDIR` is set to a path other than just `include` if
the project is configured as a top level project to avoid indirectly including
other libraries when installed to a common prefix. Please review the
[install-rules.cmake](cmake/install-rules.cmake) file for the full set of
install rules.

[1]: https://cmake.org/download/
[2]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake.1.html#install-a-project
[3]: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html
